# Python Decorators - Visually Explained
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3tyaO-OE0K0
Channel: Visually Explained
Views: 318836

Have you ever seen an at sign on top of
a function definition before? This is
decorator syntax in action.
A decorator like timer deck here is
itself a function. The purpose of that
function is to decorate or enhance a
base function that we pass as an
argument and return the enhanced
function.
By writing at timer deck on top of the
definition of brew t, we tell Python
that the base function brew t must be
enhanced by the decorator timer deck
before it is used. After receiving the
base function as an input, the decorator
bundles it with additional features
without modifying the base functions
original code.
Once these new features are added, the
decorator returns the enhanced version
of the function.
This enhanced version of the function is
what Python will use whenever brew tea
is called. In a nutshell, this is how
decorators work.
Okay, but what's the point? Why use
decorators to add on extra code when we
could simply include the additional
operations in the original function
definition?
Let's see why by developing our tea
brewing example a bit.
We'll begin by writing the body of the
brew tea function.
The function simply prints brewing tea,
pauses for a second, and then prints tea
is ready. Of course, the execution of
this function will take about 1 second.
But suppose we want to know the exact
runtime.
To do this, we could add lines of code
to record the start time of a function
call, the end time of the function call,
and print the difference between the
two. Running the code, the function does
calculate the execution time.
But there are issues with this approach.
First, the brew tea function violates
the single responsibility principle by
performing two distinct tasks. Brewing
tea and timing the process.
In programming, functions should focus
on a single well-defined responsibility
to make code reusable.
In this example, by combining brewing
and timing, we can't easily reuse the
timing logic in another function.
For example, suppose we also have a
matcha making function
and we want to time it as well. We could
do this by rewriting the timing code
from the brew tea function,
but duplicating code is not ideal since
it makes our code base repetitive and
harder to maintain.
Decorators offer a great solution to
these problems. Let's see how. For
simplicity, we'll first decorate the
brew tea function. We'll bring back make
matcha later. Since decorators are just
functions, to create one, we'll start
with the keyword deaf.
In this example, the purpose of our
decorator is to time the execution of a
function. So, we'll name it timer deck.
Remember that decorators take a base
function as an input.
So we'll define a parameter called base
function to represent that input
function.
This completes the header of the
decorator. Let's move to the body. Since
the goal of a decorator is to build
[music] an enhanced function and return
it.
Let's define that enhanced function.
The enhanced function will use the base
function as its foundation. So it should
include a call to base function.
From there, we can add the code we want
to execute before and after the base
function call. To measure the execution
time of the base function, we'll record
the start time before the call,
the end time after the call,
and then print the difference.
And that's it. We've created a decorator
that takes a base function as an input
and adds the operations to measure its
execution time.
The last step is to tell our decorator
to return the enhanced function.
Note that this return statement is part
of the decorator, not part of the
enhanced function.
Great. Now, let's use our timer
decorator to measure how long the focus
brew [music] t function takes to run. To
apply decorators in Python, we have two
options.
First, we can call the decorator and
pass the function we want to decorate as
an argument.
Running the code, we get a function
object.
This function object is the enhanced
function that the timer deck returned.
To call this function later in the
program, we can give it a name by
assigning it to a variable, say [music]
deck brew tea. Calling deck brew tea
will brew tea and time the execution.
In contrast, calling brew tea still just
brews tea.
Note that when passing a base function
to a decorator, we simply write the name
of the function. We do not follow the
name with parenthesis.
Adding the parenthesis would immediately
trigger a bruty function call, which is
not what we want here. It's also
important to note when applying
decorators, we could reassign the
decorated function back to the original
function name.
This approach ensures that every call to
the original function name brew tea
automatically includes the timer
functionality.
This is quite powerful.
By using a decorator, we've added
features to brew tea without modifying
the original code.
But at the same time, applying
decorators this way separates the
decoration from the function definition.
This makes it less obvious to someone
reading this code or to our future
selves that the base brew function will
be enhanced.
Luckily, we can address this drawback
with the at decorator syntax that we
mentioned in the beginning. Writing this
above a function is equivalent to
applying the decorator manually.
Running the code, we see that a call to
brew tea both brews tea and times the
process.
The at decorator syntax makes the
decoration an explicit and visible part
of the function definition itself.
For that reason, this syntax is
generally how decorators are applied in
Python.
Now that we have seen how decorators
help us write focus functions, let's see
how they also help us reuse code. To do
this, we'll bring back the make matcha
function to time it.
Now that we've defined the timer
decorator, timing the make matcha
function is easy.
We simply write at timer deck above the
function header and call the function.
Running the code, we see that a call to
make matcha both makes matcha and times
the process.
Perfect. The at syntax lets us easily
reuse the decorator and clearly show
which functions are enhanced.
But so far we've only decorated simple
functions that don't have parameters.
To decorate functions that do have
parameters, we need to do a bit more
work. To give ourselves some space to
work, let's fold the make matcha
function
to see how to decorate functions with
parameters. We'll modify our brew tea
function to take two arguments. The type
of tea to brew and how long it should
steep. We'll use these values inside our
function to update the first print
statement and the sleep function.
Then we'll update our brew tea function
call to pass the t type green and a
steep time of one as arguments.
Now that our brew tea function takes
arguments, running the code generates an
error. This error tells us the function
that we've called takes zero arguments,
but we gave it two. Wait, what? Haven't
we defined brew tea to take two
arguments?
Well, we did, but remember when we
decorate brew tea with the timer
decorator, calling brew tea actually
triggers a call to the enhanced function
defined in the decorator
and enhanced function currently doesn't
take any arguments.
We could try to fix this issue by
creating type and steep time parameters
in the enhanced function and passing
those into a base function call. Running
the code, this fix worked for the brew t
call, but we get another error when
Python tries to execute make matcha.
This happens because we've now specified
the enhanced function must take exactly
two arguments.
The problem is make matcha doesn't take
any arguments and let's suppose we don't
want it to. Can we make our decorator
flexible enough for both functions?
The answer is yes. But we'll need to
modify the enhance function header.
Again, the issue with the current header
is that it specifies exactly two
parameters.
In Python, we can relax this requirement
and allow a function to take any number
of inputs using star args and doublestar
kW args. If you aren't familiar with
star args and its sister syntax,
doublestar kws, make sure to check out
our video linked in the description
first. To allow enhanced function to
take any number of positional arguments,
we replace the explicit type and steep
time parameters with star args.
By writing star args in the function
definition, we're telling Python to pack
all positional arguments into a tuple
named args.
This means that when the brew function
is called, the arguments green and one
are passed to the enhance function and
packed into the args tpple. To use these
arguments in the base function call, it
might be tempting to simply pass the
args tpple.
However, this won't work because the
args tpple itself counts as a single
argument [music] and our base function
expects two.
Instead, what we need to do is split the
tpple into multiple arguments.
We can do this by applying the unpacking
operator star to the args tpple. While
the star arg syntax looks the same in
both the function definition and the
function call, Python does something
different in each case.
When used in a function call, the star
operator unpacks a tpple into separate
positional arguments instead of packing
positional arguments into a tpple. Since
our args tpple contains green and one,
these values will be unpacked into two
separate arguments.
Now the number of arguments in the base
function call matches the number of
parameters in brew tea. Better yet,
since enhance function accepts a
flexible number of arguments, the timer
decorator will now also work with the
make matcha function.
Because the make matcha call passes no
arguments, the arc tpple is empty. So
when it's time to unpack the tpple in
the base function call, there's nothing
to unpack.
This is a good thing since make matcha
has no parameters.
Running the code, both functions work as
expected.
However, if we stop here, our decorator
isn't as flexible as it could be. For
example, if in the brew tea function
call, we instead pass type and steep
time as keyword arguments,
our code breaks again.
To fix this, we need to modify enhance
function to also accept keyword
arguments.
We can do this by adding doublestar kws
as a parameter.
In this example, doublestar kws tells
Python to pack all keyword arguments
into a dictionary named kwarks.
So when the brew t function is called
the keyword arguments t type equals
green and steep time equals 1 are passed
into the enhanced function.
At this point they are all packed into
the kws [music]
dictionary as key value pairs.
To use these arguments we need to pass
them into the base function.
Like with args we can't simply pass the
kws dictionary itself. we need to split
it into two separate arguments using the
dictionary unpacking operator double
star. When used in a function call, the
double star operator unpacks a
dictionary [music] into separate keyword
arguments.
So during the brew tea function call
when the kw args dictionary contains
these key value pairs doublestar kws
splits up the dictionary into keyword
arguments typed equals green and steep
time equals 1. These keyword arguments
match up with the parameters defined in
the brew t header.
Running the code, the keyword arguments
are now accepted.
By using star args and double star kW
args, we've made our timer decorator
more general and flexible,
it can take any number of positional or
keyword arguments and forward them into
the base function.
At this point, the only thing preventing
our decorator from becoming fully
general and flexible is how it currently
handles return values or more accurately
doesn't handle them.
For example, suppose we want our make
matcha function to calculate and return
the optimal time window to drink the
matcha which is 30 minutes after it's
prepared.
We can do this by first importing the
datetime libraries date time and time
delta modules.
modify our make matcha function to
return a string that says drink matcha
by now plus 30 minutes and print make
matcha's output.
However, running the cell, we get none
instead of a drink by time. This happens
because our decorator doesn't yet
capture and pass along the return value
from the base function.
To fix this, we need to modify our
decorator to capture the return value
from base function in a variable. then
return that variable at the end of
enhanced function.
Running the cell again, we now get the
exact time by which we should drink our
matcha. And our decorator still works
with brew tea even though it doesn't
return a value. Awesome. Now our
decorator is as flexible and general as
possible.
It can decorate functions with any
number of positional or keyword
arguments thanks to star args and double
star kws.
It also supports functions that return
values without breaking when used with
functions that don't.
If you'd like to practice what you've
learned in this video, check out the
notebook we created. It [music] has a
few exercises to get you started.
We're working on lots more Python
explainer videos like this one, so be
sure to subscribe so that you don't miss
out. If you have any questions or topics
that you'd like to learn about, let us
know in the comments below. We'd love to
hear from you. Thanks for watching.
